stealthdaemon
=============

There are so many tasks I want to perform periodically on servers and sometimes cron and shell scripts aren't enough (or they are a bit too heavy)

Why am I doing this?
--------------------
I use to set up linux based servers and finished programming so much cron jobs and too much services in the background to monitor server's health, read logs, decision taking, threat detection, services verification, back up, communication with other servers, web hosting verification, etc.
I also had lots of logs generated by those applications and no control center, so I ended up ignoring every message and worrying when something happen.

Speed and performance
---------------------
I think C++ software can be a lot faster than bash scripts and even eat less memory. Instead of running some piped commands to get a data (loading all programs in memory, using the pipe and passing information from one to another to just fill up a string with certain information, let's just do it). I can also perform some tasks when the server load is not so high, or run through several ways to notify the system administrator (email, REST API, SMS...) based on different criteria.

Existing software
-----------------
As I mention, we can manage several bash scripts to schedule, copy, verify backups, copy logs to a remote drive (or home), verify services are running ok. And use programs like Nagios, dstat, ip2ban, logstash, some programs to execute privileged commands (what about protecting this a little bit?). I feel there's to much data to search and analyze and too much wasted CPU and RAM. VPS are getting cheaper, but web server applications are more and more complex and servers more and more congested. 
I've used some all-in-one control panels which integrates some tools and other tools rely on other software, but they make your server a slave, giving you not so much alternatives when configuring services on your server, or use soo much CPU resources.

What this will be
-----------------
I just want to make something useful to me, something I can install on some servers and perform some tasks on these machines (periodically or not), make decisions and report me useful information. I don't think it could be done for big servers, it probably won't replace all functionalities of some software. But I hope what it does, does it fast and integrated.

Suggestions
-----------
You can contact me by mail: gaspy [at] totaki [dot] com

License
-------
This software is BSD licensed
